Simplify the creation of custom VMs in Crownlabs (#754)
netgroup-polito/CrownLabs: provisioning/packer-virtual-machines/README.md

# Guide for creating and uploading Packer VMs in CrownLabs

## Intro to Packer 
[Packer](https://www.packer.io/) is an useful tool by Hashicorp for creating and configuring machine images in a very simple way.
The `packer build` command takes a template and creates the artifact.
It is based on three principal blocks:
- **Builders**: they are blocks resposible for creating machines and generating images from them. There are a lot of Builders, for example for VirtualBox, VMware, etc. In our case we use QEMU Builder for creating a KVM virtual machine images.
- **Provisioners**: they are responsible for installing and configuring the machine images after booting. For instance, thanks to Provisioners we can install packages and download application code. We use this block to run ansible playbooks and to clean cloud-init.
- **Post-Processors**: they run after the image is built. With this block we can make some elaboration on the artifact created. We use this block for reducing the size of the image created through `virt-sparsify`.

## Images

> Two images are involved in this mechanism:

Reviewer: Would clarify those are Docker images, and not VM images.

  - `GIT_ANSIBLE_URL`, it indicates from which git repository we have to download the ansible playbooks (default: https://github.com/netgroup-polito/CrownLabs.git);
  - `BRANCH`, it indicates from which branch of the git repository we have to download the ansible playbooks (default: master);
  - `ANSIBLE`, it indicates which ansible playbooks we want to run.
- **[docker-image](docker-image/Dockerfile)**: as we can see in the Dockerfile, this image contains all it is necessary for login in the harbor registry, with the credential provided in the environment variables, and for creating and pushing the image in this registry. The environment variables are:
  - `IMAGE_NAME`, it indicates the name of the image that will be pushed in Harbor;
  - `USERNAME`, it indicates the username used for Harbor;
  - `PASSWORD`, it indicates the password used for Harbor.

## Creating and uploading a custom image
For creating and uploading a custom image, we just have to run a job like [this](deploy/job.yaml). Clearly we have to change the environment variables in a properly way.

> This job use the two images saw [here](#images). In this case the packer-image is used as a `initContainer` and the docker-image is used as a simple container. In this way we can be sure that the uploading of the image in the Harbor registry happens after the creation of the image itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It essentially combines the Docker images mentioned in the previous section. In this case the packer-image is used as an `initContainer` and the docker-image is used as a standard container. In this way we can be sure that the uploading of the image in the Harbor registry happens after the creation of the image itself.
```

> Once the job is started, we can completely disregard its execution. If everything goes well we can find our image in the repository indicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The job executes completely unattended. Once it terminates successfully, the resulting image will be available in the configured registry.
```
